libs/ui-react/src/lib/Components/Stepper/Stepper.mdx, before:

import { Meta, Canvas, Controls } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import * as StepperStories from './Stepper.stories';
import { DoVsDontRow, DoBlockItem, DontBlockItem, CustomTabs, Tab } from '../../../../.storybook/components';
import CommonRulesDoAndDont from '../../../../.storybook/components/DoVsDont/CommonRulesDoAndDont.mdx';

<Meta title='Feedback/Stepper/Docs' of={StepperStories} />

# 🔄 Stepper

<CustomTabs>
  <Tab label="Overview">

The Stepper component provides visual feedback for multi-step processes and workflows. It displays progress as a circular indicator showing the current step out of total steps, helping users understand where they are in a sequence.

## Figma Library

All stepper designs are created and managed in our components library. This ensures consistency across all platforms and use cases.

- 🔗 **[Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/JxaLVMTWirCpU0rsbZ30k7/2.-Components-Library?node-id=11977-94&m=dev)**

## Interactive Example

<Canvas of={StepperStories.Base} />
<Controls of={StepperStories.Base} />

## 🎯 Anatomy

The Stepper consists of:
- **Track Circle**: A muted circular background showing the full progress path
- **Progress Arc**: A colored arc that fills clockwise from the top, representing completed progress
- **Label**: Centered text showing "current/total" steps (e.g., "2/4")

The progress arc starts at the top (12 o'clock position) and fills clockwise. When at 0% progress, a small dot appears at the top instead of an empty arc.

---

## 🎨 Disabled State

The Stepper supports a disabled state that changes the progress arc to a muted appearance:

<Canvas of={StepperStories.DisabledShowcase} />

### Default
The default state with an interactive accent color for the progress arc. Use this for current, ongoing processes.

### Disabled
A muted appearance for the progress arc. Use this for paused or disabled steppers.

---

## 🏷️ Custom Labels

By default, the stepper displays "currentStep/totalSteps" (e.g., "2/4"). You can provide a custom label for special cases:

<Canvas of={StepperStories.WithCustomLabel} />

---

## Usage Guidelines

### Best Practices

- Keep step counts reasonable (typically 3-7 steps)
- Use descriptive labels when the numeric format isn't clear
- Combine with textual step indicators for better context
- Use disabled for paused or inactive steppers

</Tab>
<Tab label="Implementation">

## Installation

Install the packages and their peer dependencies:

```bash
# Install the UI Kit
npm install @ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react @ledgerhq/lumen-design-core

# Install peer dependencies
npm install tailwindcss@^3.4.0 react@^18.3.1 clsx tailwind-merge class-variance-authority
```

### Tailwind Configuration

To use Stepper components with our custom Tailwind preset, you need to configure your `tailwind.config.ts`:

```typescript
import type { Config } from 'tailwindcss';
import { ledgerLivePreset } from '@ledgerhq/lumen-design-core';

const config = {
  content: [
    './src/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}', // Your project's files
    './node_modules/@ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react/dist/lib/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}', // Ledger UI Kit components
  ],
  presets: [ledgerLivePreset], // the installed tailwind preset
} satisfies Config;

export default config;
```

### Basic Usage

Import and use the Stepper component:

```tsx
import { Stepper } from '@ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react';

function OnboardingFlow() {
  const [currentStep, setCurrentStep] = useState(0);
  const totalSteps = 4;

  return (
    <div>
      <Stepper currentStep={currentStep} totalSteps={totalSteps} />
      {/* Your step content */}
    </div>
  );
}
```

### With Disabled State

Control the visual state based on step completion:

```tsx
import { Stepper } from '@ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react';

function MultiStepForm() {
  const [currentStep, setCurrentStep] = useState(1);

  return (
    <div className='flex gap-16'>
      <Stepper 
        currentStep={1} 
        totalSteps={3} 
      />
      <Stepper 
        currentStep={2} 
        totalSteps={3} 
      />
      <Stepper 
        currentStep={0} 
        totalSteps={3} 
        disabled // Not started
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Custom Labels

Provide custom labels for localized or descriptive text:

```tsx
import { Stepper } from '@ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react';

function LocalizedStepper() {
  const currentStep = 3;
  const totalSteps = 5;
  
  return (
    <Stepper 
      currentStep={currentStep} 
      totalSteps={totalSteps}
      label={`Étape ${currentStep} sur ${totalSteps}`}
    />
  );
}
```

## Do's and Don'ts

<div className='flex flex-col gap-24'>
  <DoVsDontRow>
    <DoBlockItem
      title='Provide meaningful step counts'
      description='Use realistic total steps that match your flow'
    >

```tsx
{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Stepper currentStep={3} totalSteps={5} />
```

    </DoBlockItem>
    <DontBlockItem
      title="Don't use for single-step processes"
      description='Steppers are for multi-step workflows only'
    >

```tsx
{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Stepper currentStep={1} totalSteps={1} />
```

    </DontBlockItem>

  </DoVsDontRow>

  <DoVsDontRow>
    <DoBlockItem
      title='Use disabled for paused steppers'
      description='Reserve disabled for steppers that are not actively progressing'
    >

```tsx
{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Stepper 
  currentStep={2} 
  totalSteps={4} 
  disabled 
/>
```

    </DoBlockItem>
    <DontBlockItem
      title="Don't disable active steps"
      description='Active steps in progress should not be disabled'
    >

```tsx
{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Stepper 
  currentStep={2} 
  totalSteps={4} 
  disabled // Wrong for active step
/>
```

    </DontBlockItem>

  </DoVsDontRow>
</div>

<CommonRulesDoAndDont />

</Tab>
</CustomTabs>

Commit message:

feat(Stepper): enhance step validation and labeling

libs/ui-react/src/lib/Components/Stepper/Stepper.mdx, after:

import { Meta, Canvas, Controls } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import * as StepperStories from './Stepper.stories';
import { DoVsDontRow, DoBlockItem, DontBlockItem, CustomTabs, Tab } from '../../../../.storybook/components';
import CommonRulesDoAndDont from '../../../../.storybook/components/DoVsDont/CommonRulesDoAndDont.mdx';

<Meta title='Feedback/Stepper/Docs' of={StepperStories} />

# 🔄 Stepper

<CustomTabs>
  <Tab label="Overview">

The Stepper component provides visual feedback for multi-step processes and workflows. It displays progress as a circular indicator showing the current step out of total steps, helping users understand where they are in a sequence.

## Figma Library

All stepper designs are created and managed in our components library. This ensures consistency across all platforms and use cases.

- 🔗 **[Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/JxaLVMTWirCpU0rsbZ30k7/2.-Components-Library?node-id=11977-94&m=dev)**

## Interactive Example

<Canvas of={StepperStories.Base} />
<Controls of={StepperStories.Base} />

## 🎯 Anatomy

The Stepper consists of:
- **Track Circle**: A muted circular background showing the full progress path
- **Progress Arc**: A colored arc that fills clockwise from the top, representing completed progress
- **Label**: Centered text showing "current/total" steps (e.g., "2/4")

The progress arc starts at the top (12 o'clock position) and fills clockwise. When at 0% progress, a small dot appears at the top instead of an empty arc.

---

## 🏷️ Labels

**Default label**: The default label is "currentStep/totalSteps" (e.g., "2/4").


### Step Ranges
- **`totalSteps`** must be between **2** and **9**
- **`currentStep`** must be between **0** and **`totalSteps`**
- Use `currentStep={0}` to show the initial state (minimal dot before starting)

> ⚠️ Using more than **9** total steps or exceeding the valid range may cause the UI to break and text to be truncated inside the circular indicator.

> ⚠️ Values outside valid ranges are automatically clamped: **`currentStep`** is kept between **0** and **`totalSteps`**.

## 🎨 Disabled State

The Stepper supports a disabled state that changes the progress arc to a muted appearance:

<Canvas of={StepperStories.DisabledShowcase} />



## Custom Labels

By default, the stepper displays "currentStep/totalSteps" (e.g., "2/4"). You can provide a custom label for special cases:

<Canvas of={StepperStories.WithCustomLabel} />


> ⚠️ **Note**: The label and step counts are automatically truncated if they overflow the circular indicator. Keep custom labels short to ensure readability within the 48px circle.


---

## Usage Guidelines

### Best Practices

- Keep step counts reasonable (typically 3-7 steps)
- Use descriptive labels when the numeric format isn't clear
- Combine with textual step indicators for better context
- Use disabled for paused or inactive steppers

</Tab>
<Tab label="Implementation">

## Installation

Install the packages and their peer dependencies:

```bash
# Install the UI Kit
npm install @ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react @ledgerhq/lumen-design-core

# Install peer dependencies
npm install tailwindcss@^3.4.0 react@^18.3.1 clsx tailwind-merge class-variance-authority
```

### Tailwind Configuration

To use Stepper components with our custom Tailwind preset, you need to configure your `tailwind.config.ts`:

```typescript
import type { Config } from 'tailwindcss';
import { ledgerLivePreset } from '@ledgerhq/lumen-design-core';

const config = {
  content: [
    './src/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}', // Your project's files
    './node_modules/@ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react/dist/lib/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}', // Ledger UI Kit components
  ],
  presets: [ledgerLivePreset], // the installed tailwind preset
} satisfies Config;

export default config;
```

### Basic Usage

Import and use the Stepper component:

```tsx
import { Stepper } from '@ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react';

function OnboardingFlow() {
  const [currentStep, setCurrentStep] = useState(0);
  const totalSteps = 4;

  return (
    <div>
      <Stepper currentStep={currentStep} totalSteps={totalSteps} />
      {/* Your step content */}
    </div>
  );
}
```

### With Disabled State

Control the visual state based on step completion:

```tsx
import { Stepper } from '@ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react';

function MultiStepForm() {
  const [currentStep, setCurrentStep] = useState(1);

  return (
    <div className='flex gap-16'>
      <Stepper 
        currentStep={1} 
        totalSteps={3} 
      />
      <Stepper 
        currentStep={2} 
        totalSteps={3} 
      />
      <Stepper 
        currentStep={0} 
        totalSteps={3} 
        disabled // Not started
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Custom Labels

Provide custom labels for localized or descriptive text:

```tsx
import { Stepper } from '@ledgerhq/lumen-ui-react';

function LocalizedStepper() {
  const currentStep = 3;
  const totalSteps = 5;
  
  return (
    <Stepper 
      currentStep={currentStep} 
      totalSteps={totalSteps}
      label={`Étape ${currentStep} sur ${totalSteps}`}
    />
  );
}
```

## Do's and Don'ts

<div className='flex flex-col gap-24'>
  <DoVsDontRow>
    <DoBlockItem
      title='Provide meaningful step counts'
      description='Use realistic total steps that match your flow'
    >

```tsx
{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Stepper currentStep={3} totalSteps={5} />
```

    </DoBlockItem>
    <DontBlockItem
      title="Don't use for single-step processes"
      description='Steppers are for multi-step workflows only'
    >

```tsx
{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Stepper currentStep={1} totalSteps={1} />
```

    </DontBlockItem>

  </DoVsDontRow>

  <DoVsDontRow>
    <DoBlockItem
      title='Use disabled for paused steppers'
      description='Reserve disabled for steppers that are not actively progressing'
    >

```tsx
{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Stepper 
  currentStep={2} 
  totalSteps={4} 
  disabled 
/>
```

    </DoBlockItem>
    <DontBlockItem
      title="Don't disable active steps"
      description='Active steps in progress should not be disabled'
    >

```tsx
{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Stepper 
  currentStep={2} 
  totalSteps={4} 
  disabled // Wrong for active step
/>
```

    </DontBlockItem>

  </DoVsDontRow>
</div>

<CommonRulesDoAndDont />

</Tab>
</CustomTabs>
